on explorations this time our man is
shaping his own future
this is explorations our man has become
the master of evolution man survived and
thrived because he learned to understand
how the world around him works he is
classified his world and he's brought
order to it his most important area of
study has been the natural world and
trying to understand how it came to be
as it is
that we know so much about the evolution
of life is due to the pioneering work of
one man in 1859 English naturalist
Charles Darwin published a book called
the Origin of Species
based on years of observations at home
and on exploratory voyages abroad Darwin
speculated on how such a huge variety of
species had originated on earth in
Darwin's time it was believed that each
species have been created by God and
that man was a creation separate from
other animals people knew that animals
fall naturally into what we would now
think of as evolutionary families and
they thought of them as trains of
thought in the creator's mind that the
creator's mind ran along certain lines
and that's why he produced mammals and
then then having had the basic idea of a
mammal he would then produce the
different kinds of mammal primates and
rodents and carnivores and things they
were all on a kind of ladders but it has
also been called the great chain of
being the great chain of being had sort
of God at the top and then angels and
then man and then the other animals were
arranged in a kind of ladder
in his revolutionary theory Darwin
proposed that all species changed and
evolved through a process that took
hundreds of millions of years
during this long evolution species would
vary from generation to generation some
of these variations would continue to
exist and others would die out Darwin
called this theory natural selection or
survival of the fittest
Darwinian natural selection is all about
genes surviving better than other genes
the good ones that survive are the ones
that build good bodies bodies that are
good at surviving the cheetah has
survived because it is one of the most
successful hunters in its environment
the key to its success is speed
travelling at a top speed of 70 miles an
hour the Cheetahs Anatomy is designed
for quick fast kills its ability to
watch its spine up and curve it down
allows it to lengthen its stride it's
hip and shoulder joints move through
extraordinary angles allowing it to turn
quickly non-retractable claws allow it
to grip the earth as if it were wearing
a pair of running shoes if this animal
were a human sprinter the record for the
hundred meters would stand at just over
six seconds
you